Adding v1 files for applicationTemplate (#10458)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: api-reference/v1.0/resources/applicationtemplate.md

---
title: "applicationTemplate resource type"

> description: "Represents an application in the Azure AD application gallery"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Represents an application in the Azure AD application gallery."
```

localization_priority: Normal
author: "luleonpla"
ms.prod: "microsoft-identity-platform"
doc_type: "resourcePageType"
---

# applicationTemplate resource type

Namespace: microsoft.graph

> Represents an application in the [Azure AD application gallery](/azure/active-directory/saas-apps/tutorial-list).

Reviewer: This link doesn't seem right. What does the SaaS tutorial have to do with the Azure AD application gallery?

Author: That's the link where we list all the SaaS apps available in the Azure AD application gallery and the tutorial for each of them.

## Methods

| Method       | Return Type | Description |
|:-------------|:------------|:------------|
|[List applicationTemplate](../api/applicationtemplate-list.md)|[applicationTemplate](applicationtemplate.md)|Retrieve a list of applicationTemplate objects.|
| [Get applicationTemplate](../api/applicationtemplate-get.md) | [applicationTemplate](applicationtemplate.md) | Read properties and relationships of applicationTemplate object. |
|[Instantiate applicationTemplate](../api/applicationtemplate-instantiate.md)|[applicationServicePrincipal](applicationserviceprincipal.md)| Add an instance of an application from the Azure AD application gallery into your directory.|

## Properties

| Property     | Type        | Description |
|:-------------|:------------|:------------|

> |categories|String collection|The list of categories for the application. Supported values can be: `Collaboration`, `Business Management`, `Consumer`,`Content management`, `CRM`, `Data services`, `Developer services`, `E-commerce`, `Education`, `ERP`, `Finance`, `Health`, `Human resources`, `IT infrastructure`, `Mail`, `Management`, `Marketing`, `Media`, `Productivity`, `Project management`, `Telecommunications`, `Tools, Travel`, and `Web design & hosting`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|categories|String collection|The list of categories for the application. Possible values: `Collaboration`, `Business Management`, `Consumer`,`Content management`, `CRM`, `Data services`, `Developer services`, `E-commerce`, `Education`, `ERP`, `Finance`, `Health`, `Human resources`, `IT infrastructure`, `Mail`, `Management`, `Marketing`, `Media`, `Productivity`, `Project management`, `Telecommunications`, `Tools, Travel`, and `Web design & hosting`.|
```

> |description|String|A description of the application.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|description|String|The description of the application.|
```

|displayName|String|The name of the application.|
|homePageUrl|String|The home page URL of the application.|

> |id|String| Unique identifier for the application. Read-only.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|id|String| The unique identifier for the application. Read-only.|
```

> |logoUrl|String|The URL to get the logo for this application.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|logoUrl|String|The URL to get the logo for the application.|
```

> |publisher|String|The name of the publisher for this application.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|publisher|String|The name of the publisher for the application.|
```

> |supportedProvisioningTypes|String collection|The list of provisioning modes supported by this application. The only valid value is `sync`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|supportedProvisioningTypes|String collection|The list of provisioning modes supported by this application. The value must be `sync`.|
```

> |supportedSingleSignOnModes|String collection|The list of single sign-on modes supported by this application. The supported values are `password`, `saml`, `external`, and `oidc`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|supportedSingleSignOnModes|String collection|The list of single sign-on modes supported by this application. Possible values: `password`, `saml`, `external`, and `oidc`.|
```

## Relationships

None.

## JSON representation

The following is a JSON representation of the resource.

<!-- {
  "blockType": "resource",
  "optionalProperties": [

  ],
  "@odata.type": "microsoft.graph.applicationTemplate",
  "baseType": "",
  "keyProperty": "id"
}-->

```json
{

> 	"id" : "id-value",

Reviewer: Please provide real looking values in the response.
